# BraniacWiz Quiz README.md

## 🤓 **Overview**

Welcome to the BraniacWiz Quiz Game, a decentralized application built on the Ethereum blockchain platform. This quiz game allows users to create and participate in quizzes while leveraging the security and transparency of blockchain technology. Dive into the world of decentralized quizzes and challenge your knowledge!

## 👥 **Developers**

- [Manelisi Mpotulo](https://github.com/mmpotulo28)
- [Palesa Hope Motaung](https://github.com/Helipterum)
- [Charles Polelo Ledwaba](https://github.com/CharlesLedwaba)
- [Samkele Ndzululeka](https://github.com/samkeleN)

## 💡 **Purpose**

- The BraniacWiz Quiz Game aims to provide an engaging and secure platform for users to create and participate in quizzes using smart contracts on the Celo Ethereum blockchain. By leveraging blockchain technology, the game ensures transparency, immutability, and fairness in quiz interactions.
- It makes use of multiplayer schema to make the game even more interesting, where one can be the host, and others will join as players using the game pin generated by the host.

## 🔧 **Installation and Setup**

### 1. **Requirements**:

- Metamask browser extension
- Truffle framework
- Ganache for local blockchain development
- Visual Studio Code IDE 
- Live Server extension


### 2. **Installation**:

- Clone the GitHub repository.
- Install project dependencies using npm:

  ```
  $ npm install
  ```

- make sure that your wallet is connected to Celo Alfajores Testnet and you must have some few tokens in your wallet
- if you don't have any free token click here https://faucet.celo.org/alfajores for free tokens then after that you can enjoy the game

### 3. **Running the Game**:

- You can run the game on your local desktop using live server

### 4. **Connecting Metamask**:

- Connect Metamask to the DApp and confirm account connection.
- Switch between accounts using Metamask for different interactions.
- Verify that your using Celo Alfajores Testnet or the game won't run

## 🎲 **Usage Instructions (Player/Host)**

### - **Creating a Quiz**:

- use this [link](https://devpost-hackathon.pages.dev/) to access the game from your browser.
- pick a topic that you would like to play
- Choose a role of a `host` and generate a game pin, and click next to host the quiz
- You will see a list of players as they join.
- share your game pin with the players you want to invite to the game

### - **Taking/Joining a Quiz**:

- Browse available quizzes [here](https://devpost-hackathon.pages.dev/), then click the topic hosted by the host,
- click on `join` then enter the game pin sent to you by the host.
- Once started, pick the correct answers, you will have about 10 sec to answer each question
- at the end of the quiz, a scoreboard comparing you to other players will show.
- a count down of `10sec` will start which is for waiting for other users to finish playing, and do a fair comparison.
- If you are on position one, you will receive 1 NFT token to your MetaMask wallet.
- You will however be require to pay a gas fee (transaction fee) to recieve your reward.

### - **Account Management**:

- Use Metamask to switch between accounts for different interactions within the game.
- click on the `wallet icon` at the top to view a list of your collected NFTs and preview the transactions you have made on the game
- Your tokens (NFTs) and transactions are linked to your wallet account, so keep your `MetaMask wallet` safe.
- you access them from everywhere

### - **The Subgraph Utilization**:

-The subgraph is created on subgraph studio at https://thegraph.com/studio/ using the Celo - alfajores.
- A subgraph is named BraniacWiz. 
- To create the graph the steps to be taken are:
- On your local machine, run one of the following commands:
- npm install -g @graphprotocol/graph-cli
- Initialize your Subgraph using command:
- graph init --studio <SUBGRAPH_SLUG>
- Then after writing the subgraph deploy to the subgraph studio.
- Once your subgraph is written , run the following commands:
- $ graph codegen
- $ graph build
- Publish Your Subgraph to The Graph’s Decentralized Network⁠.
- Query your Subgraph. 
- With regards to this Web application the query to the subgraph is your wallet under transactions.

### ⚠️ **Known Issues**

- `WE A RUNNING A BUG-LESS GAME! UNFORTUNATELY.`

### 📝 **Additional Notes**

- Ensure all dependencies are correctly installed for smooth operation (`when running locally`).
- Connect Metamask to the DApp to manage your account and interact with the game seamlessly.
- Refresh the page to load account information and maintain a smooth user experience.
- Make sure you are the `Celo alfajoris network` on your metamask wallet

### 🎮 **Explore the BraniacWiz Quiz Game**

Enjoy a decentralized quiz experience like never before! Feel free to contribute, provide feedback, and engage with the developers to enhance the game further.

## ⚠️ Issues reporting and Feature request

- use this [link]() to report an issue to the game
- use this [link]() to request a feature to the game
